I bought this Windows laptop from the
Amazon renewed store for
$54 this one right here is a custom
built top-of-the-line gaming PC for five
grand and my friends that is far from
the most expensive machine we've got but
just because a system costs 10 100 a
thousand times as much does that really
make it that much better we're going to
take a look inside these systems test
them and game on them to see what your
hard earned cash can buy at these
drastically different price points
starting with what I got for 50 bucks
look at this thing I don't know if
you're supposed to do that and like look
at the screen like it's got this
segue to our sponsor ug green their nexo
Pro 100 watt is Compact and Powerful
being able to charge three devices at
the same time whether it tags along with
you during your travels or stays plugged
in in your wall at home you'll first
have to pick one up using the link in
our description okay the Nova 100e only
has a dual core processor Just 4 GB of
RAM and it doesn't even have a full HD
screen but aside from a little bit of
shmoo that's still on it from the
refurbishing process I mean it's a
pretty usable little machine except it's
not what we ordered um I don't think
anyways I was looking at the product
page that's a completely different
computer I think this is like the second
generation one it doesn't support touch
gestures you can't scroll with two
fingers
no she's dropping frames 100% of your
CPU being used by System interrupts this
is a completely different computer
yeah it doesn't even have the same
processor I mean it has two extra cores
so like the multi-core performance is
better but the the single thread of is
quite a bit worse it's like 25% worse
which matters a lot on these super
underpowered machines because a lot of
what you'll see when you open up task
manag and you do anything on a computer
like this watch I'm going to open up
Chrome is see that your CPU is going to
spike 200% so having a few cores that
turbo faster actually makes for a
noticeably more responsive experience
it's emmc it's not a like a SATA SSD
curiously it actually shows up as an SD
card in task manager why don't you try
to play a 4K YouTube video that's like
you know I have a suite of tests that I
want us to you know experience as a
baseline on each of these machines and
4K crab Rave is one of the okay hold on
a second J just give it a moment hold on
hold on a second no no no hold on a
second look that's mint no it's really
not it's fine it's actually fine right
now there were some drop frames ooh I
can't tell if that's just the display
mind you probably don't need to be
streaming 4K videos on a screen like
this oh yeah there we go there we go
still like the same level of
crust no no no no that's oh oh well
don't try to multitask yeah I wouldn't
recommend that you notice something
weird about this there's like a skin on
the bottom yeah why don't you peel it
off it's on the entire laptop including
the touchpad oh so whoever the student
was who had this probably cuz this is an
educational model did they skin it you
know what maybe the school put it on
because it got damaged gave it to a new
student yeah actually that's a really
smart way to mitigate that when we were
reacting to tech support Gore we saw
some of what happens to these
educational laptops and putting a plain
black skin on them would mean if someone
were to scribble all over it you just
peel it off and throw a new one on
imagine skinning this laptop between the
vinyl and the labor involved I think you
just doubled the value of it does it
look like it got applied yeah day one
maybe day
three oh my God are you rolling on this
Glenn Glenn come over here Jake Jake
check this out check this out so that's
a screen right you know that's what
colors look like so Minecraft looks
like if you want to get anywhere near
that saturation you got to get the
darkness oh I got to be shorter yeah you
get see see what I'm talking about you
get ass what are you talking about well
I know but you get a little sliver of
color saturation oh I get what you mean
yeah yeah right it's not good it's not
good but it was also $50 yeah with
Windows yeah and a battery if all you
were doing was Google Docs it would be
fine yeah and it's actually not the
stupidest thing you could buy no it's
really not considering the cost what's
your next test oh my God Minecraft nice
so I installed a few mods that make
Minecraft run better okay so single
player Minecraft you're doing the chunk
generation yeah locally yeah yeah yeah
so if you're playing on a server you
might get a little bit better
performance this is with every setting
at the absolute bare minimum with sodium
which is a frame rate optimizing thing
with lithium which is like optimizing
the chunk stuff with another thing that
does chunk optimization with another
thing that does GPU frame optimization
well have you ever thought that maybe
adding all those optimizations added
overhead no oh this is rough dude if you
just vibe in one spot 64 FPS look at
that wow not bad not bad okay but what
happens if we move o
20 hey as long as we don't have to
generate any chunks you're right it's
serviceable yeah it's chunky there are
other games I want to try on the other
computers naturally um they don't launch
on this one yeah yeah
wow if you get a head shot I will buy
you lunch if you kill somebody I will
buy you
lunch so a head shot is two lunches sure
I'll give you two minutes okay how about
that two minutes okay you have five
minutes then all right five minutes
Jesus did we load so long that we got
kicked oh my God okay I'm I didn't even
get a chance to see
anything it's say one FPS but I think
it's actually a situation where you you
have like.
five dude there is no way I'm dead not
I'm it didn't even go to full brightness
oh okay this is a strat hold on no no no
no no no no come on come on come on yeah
no dang it come on come on come on yeah
buddy I got him let's go 1 minute left
you did technically get a head shot too
I just got lunch baby damn
it he's got the taste of defeat in his
mouth right now that's why he's
all
okay it takes a little while to register
that you've pressed the recording button
but hey once you do it it didn't look
that bad this actually looks perfectly
fine it's not very saturated oh thanks
for that real mature it's not very
saturated but In fairness that might be
theen
so maybe we can get a comparison from
the editor here here here the footage
versus what it looks like on the screen
you
know I have one more thing for you to
try on this one because the rest of them
is are probably not worth it this is a
client for olama which allows you to run
large language models tell me how pretty
I am in the form of a Hau oh my God okay
the page file is twice the size of the
actual memory so I'm never going to find
out how pretty I am am I no okay oh oh
oh oh oh red
whoa it out put one word red that's not
a hiu well you know what I'm taking it
oh Radiance I kind of liked rad
better oh wow it's actually oh it's like
going now I think it's finally like
loaded in Radiance like
dawn like Dawns light yeah oh it's going
to get after us about how haikus are not
about directly expressing Beauty but
it's not going to get the number of
syllables right okay she's done Radiance
like Dawn's light pretty as cherry
blossoms bloom Beauty
descent full of [__] I mean your hair
you could maybe say is radiant it can
compute for $50 it can play a YouTube
video and minecra is now we're moving up
in the world how is this a $500 gaming
system this case alone looks like it
cost 120 bucks this is the new one from
fantex it's the XT Pro I believe a lot
of case for not a lot of money tempered
glass comes with a fan looks decent they
do have an RGB version that's like twice
the price don't buy that buy this and
the specs are pretty decent too we get
six Intel 12 gen performance cor 16 gigs
of RAM a radon 6600 GPU and okay that
500 watt thermal take power supply
hasn't made it through the lab's
gauntlet yet but
it's
running indeed it's a little bit over
the budget you're looking at like
$540 this is pretty much as good as it
gets unless you're going to buy a used
GPU which if you're spending this kind
of money on a computer you probably
should you won't get a warranty but you
will get a lot more performance while
that GPU is still working of course if
you're gaming at 1080p this might be all
you need anyway let's take her for spin
wow that loaded a lot faster okay so we
still have the optimization mods to make
it okay even playing field and I have
the settings in the absolute dumpster
like on the laptop it's at 1080p though
so this is high resolution it's press F3
butter smooth um
1,800 frames per second turn the
settings up a little bit uh yeah I think
we could afford to do that fabulous wow
okay wow look at the world out there
she's struggling just a little bit to be
fair I wouldn't recommend running six
render distance on like a local game
that doesn't tell the entire story of
the performance experience in fact you
guys can probably even see the
occasional hitch in our recording and
that's not because our GPU isn't fast
enough to render this it's rather
because the chunks need to load
occasionally and the whole system's like
play some Counter Strike hell yeah it's
quiet though I was thinking exactly the
same thing it's damn near silent let's
see you get a kill you just wait so this
is fully maxed 1080p is that it 200 FPS
isn't enough for you I mean I don't know
I haven't played CS2 literally once this
is so much better like not a 100 times
better like last time actually is 100 a
thousand times better in terms of the
experience I mean you're standing right
now how did you just how did how the
[__] did he not die you hit him in the
shoulder I hit him in the neck no I'm
sure it was the neck editor
replay dude you can get so much gaming
PC for around 500 bucks these days
that's great all right let's fight boom
why do you just oh my God 1080p medium
preset you turned off motion blur casual
80 FPS no upscaling it was 100 right
there jeez this is great 70 plus degrees
on the CPU and 56 on the GPU I mean hold
on we're only drawing like 40 50 Watts
on the CPU sure that's efficiency baby
we don't even have the front fans
installed in the case let's see how our
hi coup does
SSD is ramping up yeah okay everything's
being loaded
wow that is also also not a hi coup stop
it for a second and say that's not a hi
cou is that a h cou NOP it's closer than
it was either way that for 10 times the
budget we are getting anywhere from 100
to a thousand times the experience and
this is what we're talking about when we
say bang for the buck or sweet spot from
a value perspective you should
definitely save your pennies for a $500
PC if you can the question now is is it
worth spending another 10 times as much
and getting a $5,000
PC my goodness look at this thing
$55,000 but it looks the part doesn't it
it's one of those things where when you
get to this class of performance you
kind of have to spend money on looks to
get to this budget
wow yeah that that's $300 of
fans we spent as much on cooling as we
did on the entire other computer by the
time you put the aiio in there oh
definitely yeah more easy yeah 6400
megat transfers per second dual 48 gig
RAM sticks 360 mil a with a screen on it
and look our 14900 K works it's a k here
we go and loaded oh pretty good we've
changed resolutions we're now at 4K boom
800 frames per second I'm still getting
the occasional hiccup but honestly this
is better than what we were running last
time in terms of the playability of it
like I can notice a difference than the
$500 one oh yeah how is this even
Minecraft I know right the crazy thing
is if you don't run these shaders on
stupid settings like we are this is the
ultra preset for BSL shaders as they're
called uh the performance hit is not
actually insane this beautiful this is a
lot and it's still running at 200 frames
per second this is awesome I adjusted
the render distance down to 16 would you
say that this is a 10 times better
experience than the last one in
Minecraft no
no it's five times better if you don't
waste money on $300 worth of fans okay
hold on you could get pretty amazing
performance for not quite 10 times the
budget you can immediately SL ,000 off
of this computer by just getting rid of
the fans and buying a cheaper 490 you
could probably drop another 100 bucks
with a cheaper motherboard cheaper
cooler cheaper Ram it's like a $500 Ram
kit oh crap oh my god oh you didn't even
get killed by that guy that
sucked stop it Jak stop that
consistently above 200 FPS very nice do
you need a $5,000 computer to do that
not really full Ultra R tracing like
hurt my computer settings with no
dlss that's 45 FPS I believe it I don't
believe that it does not feel good I'll
set it to something more reasonable this
is probably how I would play this
game oh well oh my goodness I'm so sorry
oh oh I'm sorry sorry sorry again frame
rate is identical okay see no I'm
confused now because this is way
smoother than it was before obviously
smoother yeah but but it's reporting
around 40 FPS so I think maybe the
report before was wrong try like just no
rate tracing sure oh yeah no that's 60
FPS for sure yeah yep oh yeah no the
frame counter is right can it write a
Hon oh what are our temps like oh wow
yeah casual like 63 degrees on the GPU
and our CPU got a little Spike there she
got a little spiky dude that GPU hit
almost 400 watts yeah let it load for a
second
it just like who who that's a proper ha
coup no way your radiant smile Cascades
in waves of sunlight Beauty Endless
Sea oh my goodness so it's look the GPU
is actually at 100% usage what's our
power consumption not even that high
yeah do you want to try a harder to run
language model let's do that
a daunting task spring hius no way it
starts categorizing
them wild Frosty morning silence
snowflakes dance gently falling slow
Nature's peaceful hush this may be 10
times better than our last this may be
more than 10 times or you might want to
spend even more and treat yourself to
our $50,000 computer are are you ready
for this one I'm so ready try not to
drop it I'm not going to drop it oh
$50,000 it's a server no it's not it's a
server it is a
workstation and now it's a server I
don't see it in a rack is this actually
going to be faster for gaming I have no
idea all right let's find out right away
I can see where some of the money went
why have one 2,000 wat power supply when
you can have two 2,000 watt power
supplies the super micro as 2115 HV tnrt
is no ordinary machine it might look
like a server in fact it has a rack
mount style case like a server would it
even has server features like the
ability to remotely manage it through a
web interface but it isn't a server
since it doesn't have a data center CPU
like amd's epic lineup instead going for
a thread Ripper and not just any thread
Ripper this is the full f
Big Daddy thread Ripper Pro with a
whopping
96 cores and
192 threads and oh my God it's beautiful
wow this is a
$52,000 machine with everything that's
in here right now and this is a fifth of
that just the CPU not one not two not
three but four of nvidia's RTX 6000 Ada
cards and these are special you know
they might say that it's the same 8102
chip as a 4090 oh it's not this is the
chip that would have been in a 490 TI
which they never made so it has like 10%
more everything and double the vram
these have 48 gigs of vram on them and
we have four of
them it works out to like a calm cool
and collected
$27,000 at MSRP now typically when you
buy a system like this from Super Micro
you'll spec it ahead of time for exactly
what you want and they'll build it for
you but we asked for more barebones
config so we could take the original
storage Drive they had in here and add
some
more oh
yes each of these is one of Kia's 15
terabyte cd6 data center drives giving
us a total of about 100 terabytes of
solid state storage in here does that
get us to 50 Grand to 52,000 actually
how much RAM did we put in here because
it's thread Ripper Pro and not epic a
lot less RAM sticks we only have eight
channels they put eight 64 gig ddr5 dims
so 512 gigs of RAM you could put more
Micron makes 128 gig dims now all right
I think we'll be okay with 512 GB of RAM
for gaming for gaming this is threader
for pro it is unlocked for overclocking
you can turn PBO on this CPU does Super
Micro support that on this motherboard
though oh really it's on the product
page memory and CPU overclocking enabled
mind you on this air cooler they only
rate it to like 350 W oh that's it huh
yeah oh wow which is the stock TDP it
can probably do
more it's definitely 10 times louder
than the last machine certainly and
maybe a 100 times louder than the
previous one it might be 100 times
louder than the last
one dude I'm going to click so many
heads with this bad boy I can feel it
this always amuses me I I can't
stop 96 cores and she still turbo over 4
GHz this is an incredible process tur's
over 5 GHz crazy well I feel like we
should start with the drives right we
didn't really do a storage test on any
of the other ones just because not that
exciting this one different story you
got to make make your radar this is
ridiculous hey look at that think you
could fit your games on here yes yeah I
think so
holy
mackerel yeah she'll suck back about 170
Watts just moving data around all right
games yeah 2,000 again kind of depends
where you're looking at that's not that
great are these workstation cards really
that much slower I wonder if this is one
of those scenarios where we're we're
actually CPU bottleneck yeah I mean we
could be because even though we've got a
ton of cores it's spread across multiple
dies on the package so if we're
accidentally using a core over on this
die and a core on this die and a core on
this die there can actually be a
performance loss as that data gets
fetched across the different dies
definitely is this the first time that
spending 10 times as much gets to a
performance downgrade yes okay render
distance what do you want 16 chunks try
16 32 24 well you know we got all these
cores just send it sure back to game oh
dude dude dude dude dude did you see
that one hitch at the begin
but other than that even while it's
generating chunks oh there was one more
this is by far the smoothest I've seen I
think it's the same it's not the same
the $5,000 rig no you'll feel it you'll
feel it you'll feel it he slide on in
she doesn't slow
down see this is it folks maxed out
Minecraft ridiculous mode despite there
being 10% more everything in these
graphics cards they don't have as much
clock speed y they're power limited yeah
so we are using it 100% now in some
cases oh yeah no she goes up she goes up
but a 4090 is still going to be faster
in real applications that multi-threaded
chunk loading is
gnarly I think it goes so fast that it
actually just like starts to crap its
pants a little bit all things considered
60fps yeah like it's definitely using
more than one core oh yeah you know
what's interesting though is that while
we used to be able to run multiple gpus
together to render games in SLI or Envy
link these days it's kind of dead so you
can run Counter Strike yeah but it's
just going to use a single GPU and
probably not going to run as well as our
last system did Hey look it's less
FPS no so basically you shouldn't spend
10 times as much if you want to get
better at CS2 unless we're talking about
a $50 computer
but you could spend 10 times as much and
get better at running large language
models it's not even worth running cyber
Punk at this point we're going to write
the best Haus this is an enormous model
it's bigger than the memory we have even
across all of the gpus and I'm telling
it to do the stupidest thing write me
100 hius about how mkb lore.com is we
had a different vibe there immediately
all of the GPU memory is full
oh look at those drives go pulling 500
megabytes a second time 8 4 gbes a
second just casual just casual Jake
loading up that system memory casual you
can actually see it's going at a boat 4
gigs a second dumping it into system
memory I suspect our GPU usage is not
going to be that great but it should run
which is more than you would get on most
other computers oh oh I see I see power
usage here we go here we go here we
go so this looks unimpressive but this
is like a 200 plus gigabyte model so
it's actually kind of kind of impressive
I mean our CPU drawing 240 250 just
coordinating all of this crap even like
the top end h100 h200 kind of gpus that
are meant for AI struggle to have 100%
utilization when you're just talking to
them rather than training it better be
right is it right it's not even right oh
my God we get the best model and it
can't even do it okay hold on hold on
LTT stores got all the best techies
Rejoice now these suck it's 5 five but
it's 8 in the middle I don't know how
good they are with syllables either
let's try a a small model on all the
gpus I am doing a destination wedding
and I have no regard for the
feelings of my family and friends who
are inconvenienced by this that's
literally all you're made for here we go
I strongly advise again sending an
invitation designed to manipulate your
guests Microsoft and mistol are both
like hell yeah let's do let's
go got him so so easy oh man just
pretend it's a meme bro hey look at that
150 WTS let's go well it does it how
useful it is I don't know but
sure it's fast you can do so so many AIS
on this thing we can do blender that'll
run a multiple graphics cards sure but
we l 2.6 seconds like it takes a second
to get really good but wow should we
render it sure hey that's right
camera 9 seconds not worth it for gamers
no definitely not first I think we need
a bit of a summary on this one yeah $50
computer no Docs Google Docs sure $500
computer though dude if you're gaming at
1080p like the vast majority of people
on Steam are 100% you're fine and if
you're willing to go for a secondhand
GPU you're more than fine you have a
great little machine that can do pretty
much everything from light video editing
and photo editing to playing games like
cyberpunk totally you can spend $5,000
and you will have a better experience
and it will look cooler and you may even
be a slightly better gamer but not
nearly enough to justify the difference
in expense no as for machines like this
well if you don't know you need it you
don't need it so you can put your oil
PRS money away yeah unless you're like a
large language model oil prins yeah or a
3D rendering of O then it's great just
like our sponsor Squarespace whether
your business is just getting off the
ground or you've been in the dark ages
of cold calling for a while a website
will give you that extra push to take
things to the next level that's where
Squarespace comes in their Squarespace
blueprint guided design system gives you
the ultimate starter pack to get the
creative juices flowing with
professionally curated layout and
styling options then once you've laid
the foundation use their fluid engine
editor and it's code free drag and drop
elements to customize to your heart's
content your website also comes with
integrated SEO tools and advanced
analytics so you can optimize what's
working and identify what might need a
little tweaking you can even set up your
website to take payments via credit card
PayPal and more so head on over to
squarespace.com for a free trial and
save 10% on your first purchase of a
website or a domain if you guys enjoyed
this video maybe go check out the time
we looked at a whole bunch of different
price points it was a number of years
ago but I still think it was pretty
illustrative it was a very long time ago
500 bucks though okay